1. What is computer?
  - A computer is a machine with a set of built in functions to finish specific tasks assigned by the user. The term "computer" is derived from the Latin word "computare" which means to calculate. ("What is computer", n.d.)
2. What are the essential parts of computer?
  -CPU (Central Processing Unit)
  -Graphics Card
  -RAM (Random Access Memory)
  -Motherboard
  -PSU (Powersupply)
  -Hard Drive / SSD / M.2
  -Casing
  -CPU Fans
3. Who are the notable inventors of hardware and software? Cite at least (5) software developers and (5) hardware developers.

  HARDWARE DEVELOPERS
    a. Charles Babbage(December 26, 1791). An English polymath, is often thought of as "the man who invented computers.” From 1822 until his death in 1871, 
      he designed three computers, but never actually constructed any of them due to lack of funding (Barfield, 2020). 
  
    b. Ivan E. Sutherland(May 16, 1938). For more than 2 decades ago, he was known as the inventor and developer of the interactive computer graphics.
      Sutherland was the Fletcher Jones Professor and chair of computer science at CalTech. Prior to joining the CalTech faculty, they founded Evans and 
      Sutherland Computer Corporation, where Sutherland served as vice president and chief scientist ("Ivan Edward Sutherland", n.d.).
  
    c. Seymour Cray(September 28, 1925). Cray, considered the “father of supercomputing,” had left his post at business computing giant Sperry-Rand to join the 
      newly formed Control Data Corporation so that he can focus on developing scientific computers. The title of world’s fastest computer was held at the time 
      by the IBM 7030 “Stretch,” one of the first to use transistors instead of vacuum tubes (Nguyen, 2019).    
  
    d. Bill Moggridge designed the GRiD Compass laptop (1982), the first laptop, around an early flat screen produced by Sharp. This was a yellow-on-black 
      electroluminescent panel that could display 80 characters of text and 320 x 240 pixel graphics.
  
  
  SOFTWARE DEVELOPERS
    a.John McCarthy (September 4, 1927) was an American computer scientist who contributed significantly to areas of computer science and mathematics. His 
      contributions paved the way for inventions in artificial intelligence and interactive computing systems (Avinash, 2024).
  
    b.John Warnock (1940) known as a co-founder of Adobe Inc., has pioneered the development of graphics, web and electronic document technologies that have 
      revolutionized the field of publishing and visual communication. Dr. Warnock holds seven patents ("John Warnock", n.d.).
  
    c. Linus Torvalds is a software engineer best known for developing the Linux kernel, which is an essential component of the Linux operating 
      system. His invention transformed the open-source software community and has since been widely used in a variety of applications. Torvalds’ efforts have sparked 
      collaborative development and spawned a thriving community of developers who contribute to the Linux environment (Avinash, 2024).
  
    d. Bill Gates, who is best known as the founder of Microsoft, an American multinational company located in Washington, is the largest developer of software and technological resources today (Tartarotti, 2022).
  
    e. Sergey Brin and Larry Page, the founders of Google.  Google began as a search project by Larry Page and Sergey Brin when they were Ph.D. students at Stanford University.
      The search engine algorithm they developed was unique because it ranked pages not only based on their content, but on how many other webpages linked back to them (Rouse, 2023).


4. Cite your reference/s.
  a. Barfield, R. (2023). Who invented computers? Retrieved from https://www.bricsys.com/en-eu/blog/who-invented-computers 
  b. Ivan Edward Sutherland. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://history.computer.org/pioneers/sutherland.html 
  c. National Inventors Month: 15 famous computer scientists and their inventions. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://www.turing.com/blog/famous-computer-scientists-and-their-inventions 
  d. Nguyen, T. C. (2019). Who invented the supercomputer? Retrieved from https://www.thoughtco.com/history-of-supercomputers-4121126 
  e. What is computer: Types and advantages - javatpoint. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://www.javatpoint.com/what-is-computer 
